---
title: How I want searching to be better
date: 2008-08-20 00:02:24
tags: searching, usability, 
---
<p class="MsoNormal">While I am talking about search engines, <a href="http://distributedlife.com/blog/2008/08/cuil-a-conspiracy-theorists-guide.html">sort of</a>, I think I'll post on how I want searching on the tubes to be better.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">In my opinion Google is still numero uno but all the things I am suggesting have Yahoo better positioned to make the change. Which is crap because I don't like using Yahoo search and their new alpha is on the right track whilst being a bit of a visual aberration.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">First up, when I search for something technical, often programming related, I want the search results to include the tagged results from del.icio.us. Naturally Google can't do this, they have Google bookmarks, but it's too late, I'm on delicious which is owned by Yahoo. The problem is that Yahoo doesn't index this content. This is a shame because it is user categorised relevant content. From my experience one doesn't bookmark content junk in delicious unless they perceive it to be relevant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">I tend to look in delicious if I can't find something on Google but I want to do it both at once. Once this has been done, the keywords that the search engine also has for this entry or the delicious keywords are listed under each entry.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">Why? I may not have the vocabulary to adequately describe what I am looking for. Half the problem with searching is expressing what you are looking for. I mentioned this before when I blogged about Chomsky theory and a business owner's ability to express requirements. <a href="http://distributedlife.com/blog/2008/07/agile-philosophy-business-involvement.html">You can read about this here</a>. When I click on a tag I can then get a filtered subset of that delicious tag. Drilling down essentially. Whether I drill by one tag or all tags I can't tell which is better or if both options should be provided.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">Cuil does some drilling down. This is achieved by showing the user what other content intersects the search terms. It doesn't provide user bookmarked content.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"></p>
<p class="MsoNormal"></p>
<p class="MsoNormal">Next up is to integrate Flickr into the search results. Once again a Yahoo purchase and this is something they have done. It's a shame because all those accurately tagged images are not accessible from Google. Naturally this should cover public images only. Images that are tagged can be additionally tagged with accurate "content" levels so that searches can filter their own results according to their modesty index.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"></p>
<p class="MsoNormal">The fundamentals of searching haven't changed since the mid-nineties. You enter a term into a search box and get a set of results. Open a bunch up in tabs to see if you have relevant content. Perhaps its time to look at how we <strong>can </strong>search rather than how to best provide results for how we <strong>currently </strong>search.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">On this topic is the <a href="http://au.alpha.yahoo.com/">Yahoo Alpha</a> (in Beta, ugh!) which provides a set of search results for the web, and images, and Yahoo answers and several other categories on the page. I don't like it. Each item is in a separate section of the page and you have to change your focal point to examine results. This makes it too easy to miss content. Some of the sections are closed which means I need to interact with the page to see if the results are relevant. Too much effort. Consolidate my view, remove the image and video sections, or at the most do what google does and has a few very small thumbnails at the top.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">When I want to search for images, I know that I do. I realise that Yahoo wants to provide a single interface for federated searching. For me I would prefer to prefix a search with the string "image:" or "video:" and have it automatically redirect to the relevant search context. Obviously this isn't winning in the learnability stakes but it is making the website more efficient to use. Both of these are usability issues suited to different user skill levels.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><strong>Note: </strong>Google should buy Yahoo. It would solve some of my problems.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><strong>2nd Note: </strong>I didn't mention Microsoft Live Search because in Australia it is associated with NineMSN and I fear my search results will be along the lines of "find the right hair style to suit your compiler" or "fixing link errors in friendship bands".</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"></p>
<p class="MsoNormal"></p>
<p class="MsoNormal"></p>