---
title: Crisps
date: 2008-03-08 07:52:00
tags: entirely-off-topic, 
---
I was just down the shop looking for some snacks to munch on while I work and I noticed that all the multiple packets of crisps (bags of 15 packets of salt &amp; vinegar, etc) are all being switched over to cardboard boxes (rather than foil bags).

I wondered why:


 - Boxes are easier to stack and seem to consume less volume. Saves money on shipping.
 - Boxes probably biodegrade or can be recycled more easily than foil bags. They could be heading for an "ethical" packet of crisps angle,<br />
 - Switching to boxes makes the product look like "new". Therefore they can change the individual packet sizes without as many complaints.

Boxes probably cost more (so the first two need savings/revenue spinners need to outweigh the additional costs). It is probably, nay is the third option. The 15x individual packets within the box are 19g serving sizes whilst the one remaining foil bag in the shop had individual sizes of 20g.

1g per packet isn't much but that's 15g per box or 5% smaller. If they saved 1c per gram, its 15c a box and lots of money across the board when you consider how many packets of crisps get sold per annum.

As a Generation+Ner (whatever generation you are, plus N to where I am) I shouldn't fall for, or put up with, the tactics that worked on Generation+(N-1) so I'll vote with my feet (and I'll blog at anyone walking past...Generation Rant ftw.

What I would like to see is a publicly available web-app that people can upload images (ideally thumbnails) of product packages that have changed and a timestamp of when it was bought so anyone can tell which companies are gouging us the most (in their local area). It's not a complicated web-app but I feel some human intervention would be required (or self-moderation) to ensure the content was not corrupted (potentially by the companies attempting to protect their image).

Before I go, I am aware that these companies are probably suffering from rising manufacturing costs and need to protect their shareholder's profit margins. That in my opinion isn't enough for me to put up with the underhanded manner in which they protect their profits. I'm a man of my principles.

Note: For some reason my family and therefore I, use the term "crisps" rather than the now-common term "chips". Personally I prefer crisps as it allows one to distinguish from hot-chips.